src/pages/about/whats-new.md, before:

---
layout: page.njk
tags: pages
permalink: "{{eleventyNavigation.parent | slugify}}/{{page.fileSlug}}/"

title: What's New
eleventyNavigation:
  key: What's New
  summary: A rundown of the latest Design System additions and developments.  
  parent: About
  order: 3
---

# {{ title }}

This is where you'll find a rundown of the latest Design System additions and developments.

Please contact the [Design System team](/about/our-team/) if there are any questions!

## May 2025

- New [Icon](/visual-elements/icons) guidelines for using Material Symbols.
- Completed and shared the [2025 Design System Doc Site Accessibility Evaluation](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1pZmSr1ILdI99ehR9i3p6gLngnbbZjx5TO8gx1I2Up1Y/edit?usp=sharing) and shared more detailed information on [Accessibility and Inclusive Design](/foundations/accessibility-and-inclusive-design/).

## March 2025

- Added [File Upload](/reusable-designs/file-upload/), [Range](/reusable-designs/range/), and [Search Input](/reusable-designs/search-input/) as Reusable Designs.
- We've said goodbye and thank you to a member of the team (Thank you, Suvi!)
- We've updated our site tech stack and documentation for contribution.

## October 2024

- Added [Badges](/reusable-designs/badges/) and [Tags](/reusable-designs/tags/) as Reusable Designs  
- Added a new team member to [Our Team](/about/our-team/)! (Welcome, Josh!)  
- New script tag for our [Web Components](/about/web-components-and-design-tokens/).

## May 2024

- Added [Banners](/reusable-designs/banners/) as a Reusable Design

## November 2023

- Implemented improvements to the website header and navigation  
  - Site search  
  - New utility navigation with links for commonly used resources: color table, Google templates, Figma Toolkit and CodePen.
- Shared 3 updated Google Slide templates with improved contrast for viewing in different environments

## October 2023

- Added new Reusable Designs for inputs: [Checkbox](/reusable-designs/checkbox/) , [Input fields](/reusable-designs/input-fields/) , [Radio button](/reusable-designs/radio-button/)  and [elect](/reusable-designs/select/)

## March 2023

- Updated [Google Site Guidelines](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1MBPKPOfeZCP8FCtiHO8ns1CftqzMEhUIVb-MABbDdBg/edit?usp=sharing)  
- Created a Google Site template using the U-M Library Design System

## February 2023

After a lot of writing, editing, designing, and building — the new documentation site is live!

This is the 3rd major redesign of our documentation site since we started the Design System in 2017. Our older sites were built around our design language and components. We collaborated with the library's [Communication and Marketing department](https://lib.umich.edu/about-us/our-divisions-and-departments/deans-office/communication-and-marketing), expanded our scope, and built out a much more robust site rooted in an updated set of [foundations](/foundations/).

### New features of this site

- Site sections with landing pages: Getting Started, Foundations, Visual Elements, Content, Reusable Designs, and About  
- Look and feel essentials in [Visual Elements](/visual-elements/)  with connections to our Figma Design Library  
- CodePen code samples embedded on [Reusable Designs](/reusable-designs/) pages  
- Paths guiding different audiences using the Design System through the site in [Getting Started](/getting-started/)  
- Extensive [Content](/content/) guidance to support writing for the library across contexts

Commit message:

Add decorative theme updates to whats new

src/pages/about/whats-new.md, after:

---
layout: page.njk
tags: pages
permalink: "{{eleventyNavigation.parent | slugify}}/{{page.fileSlug}}/"

title: What's New
eleventyNavigation:
  key: What's New
  summary: A rundown of the latest Design System additions and developments.  
  parent: About
  order: 3
---

# {{ title }}

This is where you'll find a rundown of the latest Design System additions and developments.

Please contact the [Design System team](/about/our-team/) if there are any questions!

## May 2025

- New [Icon](/visual-elements/icons) guidelines for using Material Symbols.
- Completed and shared the [2025 Design System Doc Site Accessibility Evaluation](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1pZmSr1ILdI99ehR9i3p6gLngnbbZjx5TO8gx1I2Up1Y/edit?usp=sharing) and shared more detailed information on [Accessibility and Inclusive Design](/foundations/accessibility-and-inclusive-design/).
- Updated [Google Slide theme templates](https://drive.google.com/drive/folders/1uIDCY-OIyd2cET3PkpZVOco32wGKsM91) to improve accessibility and PDF creation by making decorative accents part of the background image in the theme.

## March 2025

- Added [File Upload](/reusable-designs/file-upload/), [Range](/reusable-designs/range/), and [Search Input](/reusable-designs/search-input/) as Reusable Designs.
- We've said goodbye and thank you to a member of the team (Thank you, Suvi!)
- We've updated our site tech stack and documentation for contribution.

## October 2024

- Added [Badges](/reusable-designs/badges/) and [Tags](/reusable-designs/tags/) as Reusable Designs  
- Added a new team member to [Our Team](/about/our-team/)! (Welcome, Josh!)  
- New script tag for our [Web Components](/about/web-components-and-design-tokens/).

## May 2024

- Added [Banners](/reusable-designs/banners/) as a Reusable Design

## November 2023

- Implemented improvements to the website header and navigation  
  - Site search  
  - New utility navigation with links for commonly used resources: color table, Google templates, Figma Toolkit and CodePen.
- Shared 3 updated Google Slide templates with improved contrast for viewing in different environments

## October 2023

- Added new Reusable Designs for inputs: [Checkbox](/reusable-designs/checkbox/) , [Input fields](/reusable-designs/input-fields/) , [Radio button](/reusable-designs/radio-button/)  and [elect](/reusable-designs/select/)

## March 2023

- Updated [Google Site Guidelines](https://docs.google.com/document/d/1MBPKPOfeZCP8FCtiHO8ns1CftqzMEhUIVb-MABbDdBg/edit?usp=sharing)  
- Created a Google Site template using the U-M Library Design System

## February 2023

After a lot of writing, editing, designing, and building — the new documentation site is live!

This is the 3rd major redesign of our documentation site since we started the Design System in 2017. Our older sites were built around our design language and components. We collaborated with the library's [Communication and Marketing department](https://lib.umich.edu/about-us/our-divisions-and-departments/deans-office/communication-and-marketing), expanded our scope, and built out a much more robust site rooted in an updated set of [foundations](/foundations/).

### New features of this site

- Site sections with landing pages: Getting Started, Foundations, Visual Elements, Content, Reusable Designs, and About  
- Look and feel essentials in [Visual Elements](/visual-elements/)  with connections to our Figma Design Library  
- CodePen code samples embedded on [Reusable Designs](/reusable-designs/) pages  
- Paths guiding different audiences using the Design System through the site in [Getting Started](/getting-started/)  
- Extensive [Content](/content/) guidance to support writing for the library across contexts
