11ty/README.md, before:

## Development Quick Start

Install 11ty and dependencies

```
npm install
```

Start development server and watch Sass (.scss) files (in parallel).

```
npm start
```

**Important:** The DRUPAL_AUTH is currently required to fetch some of the Drupal JSON. (October 2022). Enter the correct password for `$password`.

```
DRUPAL_AUTH=admin:$password npm start
```

View in browser

```
http://localhost:8080
```

## Dev Scripts

- `npm start` to start the eleventy server (serves the `/public` folder) and watch the Sass `/scss` folder
- `npm build` to create a production build. Outputs into `/public`.

### Building and watching files

`npm-run-all` is a CLI tool to run multiple npm-scripts in parallel or sequential. This is used in the dev scripts to watch Sass files and hot reload 11ty files in parallel.

---

## Developing the Site

This is some very basic information. Please read the official [11ty documentation](https://www.11ty.dev/docs/) for an in-depth guide to building with 11ty.

### Edit site metadata


```
src/_data/meta.json
```

This data can be used in the markdown and Nunjucks files. The following properties are supported:

<table>
    <thead>
        <tr>
            <th>Key</th>
            <th>Description</th>
        </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
        <tr>
            <td><code>siteName</code></td>
            <td>The full name of the website.</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><code>productName</code></td>
            <td>Shortened name to describe the Design System.</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><code>url</code></td>
            <td>Site url</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><code>siteDescription</code></td>
            <td>Description of the site used for SEO.</td>
        </tr>
         <tr>
            <td><code>language</code></td>
            <td>Language set in the <code>html</code> for the site.</td>
        </tr>
         <tr>
            <td><code>author</code></td>
            <td>Creator of the site. An object with author's <code>name</code>, <code>url</code>, and <code>email</code>.</td>
        </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>

### Layouts

Layouts use the Nunjucks templating language.

Page layouts are located the the `layouts` folder.

```
src/_includes/layouts
```
There is a `base.njk` file for the HTML boilerplate.
Additional layouts build off of that boilerplate.

```
/layouts
  base.njk
  home.njk
  landing-page.njk
  page.njk
```

Partials use the Nunjucks `{% include %}` and are located in the `partials` folder.

```
src/_includes/partials
```

## Create pages/ page content

### Index.md and 404.md

Static page content is created with markdown (.md).
Use YAML front matter to add data to your content. Locally assigned front matter values override things further up the chain.

### Drupal content

Pages are generated from the Drupal content coming from the Drupal JSON:API using the [11ty pagination feature](https://www.11ty.dev/docs/pagination/).

```
src/_data/drupal.js
```

#### Pagination files to create landing page and page

There are two Nunjuck files- one to generate a page (`page-generator.njk`) and one to generate landing pages (`landing_page-generator.njk`).

## Styles

Edit the styles in the `src/scss` folder. 11ty is watching that folder and building the Sass files into `src/css`. 11ty then passes through the CSS to the `public` folder.

## Images

Add images to the `src/img` folder. 11ty is watching that folder and passing through the files to the `public` folder.

## 11ty Features

### **Plugins**

This site uses the [11ty Navigation Plugin](https://www.11ty.dev/docs/plugins/navigation/).
This plugin supports infinite-depth hierarchical navigation and breadcrumbs.

Add the `eleventyNavigation` object to your front matter data (or in a data directory file). Assign a unique string to the key property inside of `eleventyNavigation`.

```
eleventyNavigation:
  key: about
```

#### **Collections**

Collections allow you to group data in certain ways using `tags`.

_Important distinction_: tags have a singular purpose in Eleventy... to construct collections of content. Not to be confused with tag labels used in blogs.

---

## Resources

Please visit the official [11ty](https://www.11ty.dev/docs/) docs.

These were helpful for data configuration:

- [Generate 11ty pages from external data](https://egghead.io/lessons/11ty-generate-eleventy-11ty-pages-from-external-data)
- [Using 11ty JavaScript Data files to mix Markdown and CMS content...](https://bryanlrobinson.com/blog/using-11ty-javascript-data-files-to-mix-markdown-and-cms-content-into-one-collection/)

Commit message:

refactor: adds docker; uses env var for drupal host

11ty/README.md, after:

## Development Quick Start

Build Docker the docker image for web
```
docker-compose build web
```

Copy the `.env-example` to `.env`

Update `.env` to have real values. 

**Important:** The DRUPAL_AUTH is currently required to fetch some of the Drupal JSON. (October 2022). Enter the correct password for `$password`.

Install 11ty and dependencies

```
docker-compose run --rm web npm install
```

Start development server and watch Sass (.scss) files (in parallel).

```
docker-compose run --rm web npm start
```

View in browser

```
http://localhost:8888
```

## Dev Scripts

- `npm start` to start the eleventy server (serves the `/public` folder) and watch the Sass `/scss` folder
- `npm build` to create a production build. Outputs into `/public`.

### Building and watching files

`npm-run-all` is a CLI tool to run multiple npm-scripts in parallel or sequential. This is used in the dev scripts to watch Sass files and hot reload 11ty files in parallel.

---

## Developing the Site

This is some very basic information. Please read the official [11ty documentation](https://www.11ty.dev/docs/) for an in-depth guide to building with 11ty.

### Edit site metadata


```
src/_data/meta.json
```

This data can be used in the markdown and Nunjucks files. The following properties are supported:

<table>
    <thead>
        <tr>
            <th>Key</th>
            <th>Description</th>
        </tr>
    </thead>
    <tbody>
        <tr>
            <td><code>siteName</code></td>
            <td>The full name of the website.</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><code>productName</code></td>
            <td>Shortened name to describe the Design System.</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><code>url</code></td>
            <td>Site url</td>
        </tr>
        <tr>
            <td><code>siteDescription</code></td>
            <td>Description of the site used for SEO.</td>
        </tr>
         <tr>
            <td><code>language</code></td>
            <td>Language set in the <code>html</code> for the site.</td>
        </tr>
         <tr>
            <td><code>author</code></td>
            <td>Creator of the site. An object with author's <code>name</code>, <code>url</code>, and <code>email</code>.</td>
        </tr>
    </tbody>
</table>

### Layouts

Layouts use the Nunjucks templating language.

Page layouts are located the the `layouts` folder.

```
src/_includes/layouts
```
There is a `base.njk` file for the HTML boilerplate.
Additional layouts build off of that boilerplate.

```
/layouts
  base.njk
  home.njk
  landing-page.njk
  page.njk
```

Partials use the Nunjucks `{% include %}` and are located in the `partials` folder.

```
src/_includes/partials
```

## Create pages/ page content

### Index.md and 404.md

Static page content is created with markdown (.md).
Use YAML front matter to add data to your content. Locally assigned front matter values override things further up the chain.

### Drupal content

Pages are generated from the Drupal content coming from the Drupal JSON:API using the [11ty pagination feature](https://www.11ty.dev/docs/pagination/).

```
src/_data/drupal.js
```

#### Pagination files to create landing page and page

There are two Nunjuck files- one to generate a page (`page-generator.njk`) and one to generate landing pages (`landing_page-generator.njk`).

## Styles

Edit the styles in the `src/scss` folder. 11ty is watching that folder and building the Sass files into `src/css`. 11ty then passes through the CSS to the `public` folder.

## Images

Add images to the `src/img` folder. 11ty is watching that folder and passing through the files to the `public` folder.

## 11ty Features

### **Plugins**

This site uses the [11ty Navigation Plugin](https://www.11ty.dev/docs/plugins/navigation/).
This plugin supports infinite-depth hierarchical navigation and breadcrumbs.

Add the `eleventyNavigation` object to your front matter data (or in a data directory file). Assign a unique string to the key property inside of `eleventyNavigation`.

```
eleventyNavigation:
  key: about
```

#### **Collections**

Collections allow you to group data in certain ways using `tags`.

_Important distinction_: tags have a singular purpose in Eleventy... to construct collections of content. Not to be confused with tag labels used in blogs.

---

## Resources

Please visit the official [11ty](https://www.11ty.dev/docs/) docs.

These were helpful for data configuration:

- [Generate 11ty pages from external data](https://egghead.io/lessons/11ty-generate-eleventy-11ty-pages-from-external-data)
- [Using 11ty JavaScript Data files to mix Markdown and CMS content...](https://bryanlrobinson.com/blog/using-11ty-javascript-data-files-to-mix-markdown-and-cms-content-into-one-collection/)
